[Music]
so when the surface laptop 4
launched last week my initial reaction
my first response to this whole product
launch was
are these actually going to be good
enough can they actually compete
with the m1 macbooks from apple because
these
are very competitive they're reasonably
priced they have
good performance crazy good battery life
these are tough
to beat even if you're a windows user
it's hard to ignore
what apple has done with m1 macbooks
right now so when these came out and
because windows laptops in the past
they're not traditionally like good
performance for the money
i had my reservations so there are two
main variations that you can pick up the
surface laptop for in they have
intel versions as well as amd versions
and the amd ones are like the base model
they start at 999 dollars
but unlike surface devices in the past
the base model is very usable this has 8
gigs of ram 256 gigs of storage
and traditionally like the base model
surface product is usually
just really under configured to the
point where as a reviewer you're like
why do they even make these things it
almost feels like they
put them out there just to like upsell
the better configured stuff
but the surface laptop four nicely
configured and it has
an amd 4680u processor so that's six
core cpu
seven vega gpu cores it's not like the
latest and greatest
ryzen 5000 series stuff but it is very
capable both in cpu
and in graphical performance but if you
want to step up and
upgrade it to the intel version this is
a 300 upgrade it's a pretty significant
bump up in price
you do get more storage it's 512 gigs of
storage
but the biggest difference between the
amd version and the intel version when
it comes to the surface laptop four
is in graphical capabilities so these
intel versions are running the intel xe
graphics chips
for an integrated device that is low
wattage as these devices are
it's great and it's going to depend on
the game that you're playing but
realistically from the stuff i was
testing you're looking at a
25 to maybe 30 improvement in frame rate
over the amd version so if that matters
to you if you're playing games if you're
doing stuff that's graphically intense
for work any kind of
you know gpu based workflow the intel
based laptop is gonna perform better
now the real question though is how do
these compare with
apple's m1 macbooks so when it comes to
performance they're
comparable right when it comes to this
kind of price point and this kind of
performance category there's no product
that really takes the league unless
you're
taking a specialized benchmark or a
specialized application and comparing it
like that but that i don't think that's
a fair comparison so when it comes to
performance
they're similar but the real advantage
that
apple's m1 macbooks have had over almost
every other product
on the market right now is battery life
so apple
claims 20 hours of battery life
on the m1 macbook pro so this
is a abnormally long battery life right
and i've run the test you can hit it you
can actually hit 20 hours of battery
life if you set the screen brightness to
halfway
you do all the tests that that apple has
claimed that they do
you can hit 20 hours i've done it
realistically speaking though you can
get
13 hours of battery life of real use
okay
when it comes to these devices the amd
version
microsoft is claiming 19 hours of
battery life the intel version
microsoft is claiming 17 and a half
hours of battery life and these are
incredibly long battery lifes compared
to the surface laptop 3. the previous
generation of service laptop
had a claimed battery life of 11 and a
half hours
just the quick math is that these have a
65 improvements in battery life
claimed so i had to test this out like
are you for are you for real
how did you jump up 65 in battery life
without changing the architecture of
this system so i ran the test and this
is what we got on the intel device
i got 10 hours of battery life a little
bit more on that and then on the amd
device
i got 11 hours of battery life now these
are not
the 19 hour claim that microsoft claimed
and part of me
doesn't really care all that much
because 11 hours of battery life on a 13
inch device
is fantastic it's better than most thin
line devices out there
and it's significantly better than the
surface laptop three from last year i
got seven hours last year
so 11 hours and 10 hours is
very good but i i wanted to know how did
they hit
that 19 hour number so i looked on the
website and it says they rented 150 nits
which is really dim but you know what
i'll play along 150 nits and no matter
what i did i could never get it to 19
hours even if i ran my loop at like the
lowest energy consumption possible doing
like literally idling couldn't hit 19
hours so
part of me doesn't care because 11 hours
is really good
but i cannot hit 19 hours on this device
no matter what i did
i'm just putting it out there but at 11
hours you can easily last a day maybe
even two
without bringing your charger with you
it has an excellent battery life
now from what i can see they didn't
achieve this extended battery life
through just software tweaks it's
got some hardware customization like the
cpu on the amd unit it's running a
customized
amd chip it's got uh it's got some
tweaks just
in physical hardware to be able to
maximize the energy efficiency of the
system
but in general i am i'm shocked
like i've tested a lot of laptops on
this channel and i've seen
a lot of companies claim these stupid
numbers and i always run the same test
for consistency and reliability
and i've never seen a surface device go
this long
so congratulations to microsoft for
delivering something that is
it's it's very impressive and i would
say it actually competes with
the biggest strength the greatest
strength of
m1 macbooks so yeah that's a good thing
to see
now if you choose to pick up a surface
device you get all the
surface-ness with it all the good and
all the bad right so you get
in terms of the good you get a nice
design with a really premium finish to
it
you get an excellent keyboard a truly
excellent trackpad possibly best in
class
you get the alcantara finish on some of
the units you get a 3x2
aspect ratio screen with decent
brightness and colors to it
we also get these thick bezels that run
around the whole display panel
personally i don't love them obviously
thinner bezels would be nicer but
i don't think it's too big of a deal
when it comes to actual usage
you also get surface connect which you
either like or dislike
it's a very uh controversial thing i
mean more usb-c ports would be better
for me personally but
some people like surface connect we also
have very quiet fans these systems are
always quiet and the surface pro 4 is as
you would expect
but there's also the topic of color so
this year there is a new ice blue color
which i'd actually like it's a
slightly lighter colored blue than last
year's cobalt
blue but you can only get it
as microsoft tradition would dictate in
certain configurations you can only get
it with the intel chips you can't get an
amd version with
the blue color which i think is a shame
right i think if you like colors you
have to
now choose an intel chip which is very
microsoft but i don't like seeing
but you also have decent repairability
so on the bottom there's no visible
screws but you remove the rubber feet
and you can take off the keyboard panel
and in there you can replace your ssd
so the ability just to repair or replace
that drive is
really nice in comparison to m1 products
but
there's not much else you can do in
there and if you're wondering the
speaker system is
above average but they're still not as
good as apple's macbook products
so my overall take on this like how do i
view this product i think
these are really good like i didn't
expect them to have the battery life and
the performance that they would have but
they deliver now when it comes to
choosing between the two like if you're
someone that can
go with either mac os or windows
i would say that these are like they're
the first
product that's come out this year that's
made me go hmm
i would recommend these like if you're
looking for a thin light laptop
usually it's been like you know that 999
macbook is
pretty good it's hard to beat but these
because the battery life is so good
and because the performance is on point
i like them i think that these are very
easy to recommend for the person that
has this kind of budget right if you
want that premium
thin and light laptop experience and you
want good performance you want good
battery life
these deliver i will say the amd one's
the one like that's the one i would
choose because
graphics when it comes to this type of
graphics like
it's it's not like gaming good graphics
right it's just acceptably good
i would go for the amd i just wish it
came in the better colors
but there you have it surface laptop
four okay hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it
subs you loved it see you guys next time
[Music]
you